---
layout: post
title: My undergraduate research projects
date: 2022-12-02 9:39:00
description: Formulation, exploration, and optimization of tensor algebra design space
---

I completed three research projects with professors from Stanford University, UC Irvine, and Tsinghua University. Each of them explored one aspect of tensor algebra design space. In Sparse Workspace project, I formulated new design space: introducing new discordant accumulation operations into sparse compilers. In KAS, I developed new space exploration techniques for dense computation graphs of neural networks. Finally, in Sgap, I optimized a single point in the space: sparse dense hybrid operators on GPU.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Overview.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

### Sparse Workspace

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/SpWS.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

I **formulated** new design space: introducing new discordant accumulation operations into sparse compilers. I observed that current algorithm could not correctly infer reduction operators. Therefore, I proposed five logic rules called [Forall Context](../assets/pdf/ForallContext.pdf), which determined the reduction operator for any workspace expression. This technique has been integrated into [TACO](https://github.com/tensor-compiler/taco). We observed the discordant accumulation problem. That said, the current algorithm can only handle concordant point streams and allocates a large amount of memory unnecessarily. Observing this phenomenon, I designed a new algorithm called *sparse workspace*. Sparse workspace aims to be a flexible sparse compilation algorithm that handles discordant or concordant point streams with intermediate memory cost controlled by users. This work is supervised by [Professor Fredrik Kjostad](http://fredrikbk.com/). A technical report for this project can be found [here](../assets/pdf/Sparse_Workspace_Technique_Report.pdf). 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/SpWS-workflow.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

### Kernel Architecture Search

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/KAS.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

I developed new space **exploration** techniques for dense computation graphs of neural networks. We proposed *Kernel Architecture Search (KAS)* to search for efficient computation graphs with the highest classification accuracy within the same hardware budgets. We implemented a system *Canvas* to examine our KAS idea. I optimized the graph generation algorithm of Canvas reduced the sampling time from seconds to milliseconds. KAS finds network designs with up to 1.5x inference speedups over previous state-of-the-art with acceptable accuracy loss. This work is supervised by [Professor Mingyu Gao](https://people.iiis.tsinghua.edu.cn/~gaomy/). We submitted the paper to MLSys 2023, for which I am the second author. This paper is still under review.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/KAS-workflow.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

### Sgap

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Sgap.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

I **optimized** a single point in the space: sparse dense hybrid operators on GPU. We observed that GPU performs better on regular data, whose benefits can remedy possible redundant computation. With the help of this trait, I developed atomic parallelism to accelerate SpMM GPU kernels, and observed a 1.6x~2.3x increase in speed. Such optimization has been integrated into [dgSPARSE](https://github.com/dgSPARSE/dgSPARSE-Library). Then I generalized atomic parallelism as a sparse compiler technique called segment group. Equipped with segment group, the sparse compiler can generate sparse GPU kernels 1.2x faster than before. This work is jointly supervised by [Professor Yu Wang](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=j8JGVvoAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao) and [Professor Sitao Huang](https://sitaohuang.com/). We submitted Sgap (segment group and atomic parallelism) to CCF Transactions on High Performance Computing. I am the first author for this publication.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/Sgap-workflow.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>